README.md, before:

# multiIDE version 1.0.0.0 pre-alpha by Evgeniy Chaev

Emulates several virtual machines and provides sharing access to virtual IO devices.

## Some screenshots
Connecting to a console initialized by another machine:
![architecture view](https://github.com/plankalkulist/multiIDE/blob/master/screenshot1.png)

Changing console settings, running a machine by step and viewing machine's memory (RAM) at the same time:
![architecture view](https://github.com/plankalkulist/multiIDE/blob/master/screenshot2.png)

Managing types of components for current workplace:
![architecture view](https://github.com/plankalkulist/multiIDE/blob/master/screenshot3.png)


## The multiIDE solution consists of 7 projects (except test projects):

![architecture view](https://github.com/plankalkulist/multiIDE/blob/master/archview.png)

### multiIDE.Commons
	Consists of interfaces for all components of the entire solution, also contains several common classes.
	Interfaces inheritance graph:
![architecture view](https://github.com/plankalkulist/multiIDE/blob/master/Components%20Inheritance%20Depencies.png)
### multiIDE.Core
	Contains multiIDE core components such as Workplace class, multiIDE form, IDE class and several common tools classes.
	Type dependencies graph:
![architecture view](https://github.com/plankalkulist/multiIDE/blob/master/Core%20Assembly%20Type%20Dependencies%20Graph.png)
### multiIDE.Machines
	Provides default set of virtual machines.
### multiIDE.CodeEditors
	Provides default set of code editors.
### multiIDE.IOports
	Provides default set of IO ports.
### multiIDE.IOdevices
	Provides default set of IO devices.
### multiIDE.Extras
	Provides default set of extra components both for a Workplace and for an IDE.


## Some integration testing

### Test 1
 1. File > New Workplace
 2. click on New IDE button (with white sheet icon) or click in menu or press Ctrl+I
 3. check "Connect new Standard Console..." and click Create button or press Enter
 4. open BFS program file "\multiIDE\BFS code examples\cycle output numbers.bfs"
 5. click Run > Start or press F5 to start running the machine

 6. create New IDE without Std Console, and then connect Console id0 to new machine's output port
   by clicking Machine > I/O Ports > #0:... > Out:... > [Connect To:] Console id0 - ...
 7. open the same file again and Start running machine id1
   if warning about input ports/devices has shown, ignore it by clicking Yes

 8. now these machines are in concurrent running, and you can add more by the way


### Test 2
 in addition to that running machines (or in new Workplace)
 1. create a new IDE without Console
 2. then click Machine > I/O Ports > #0:... > In: (empty input port) > New Console Device
   and Machine > I/O Ports > #0:... > Out: (empty output port) > [Connect To:] Console id* - ...
 3. open BFS program file "\multiIDE\BFS code examples\cycle division.bfs"
 4. then Start running and input in Console a dividend and a divisor (with space or enter between)
 5. and then click Enter to get a quotient, then it goes around in cycle

### Test 3
  close, connect and disconnect consoles and other IO devices in any order trying to crash the app

Commit message:

Added dependencies solutions source files.

README.md, after:

# multiIDE version 1.0.0.0 pre-alpha by Evgeniy Chaev

Emulates several virtual machines and provides sharing access to virtual IO devices.

## Some screenshots
Connecting to a console initialized by another machine:
![architecture view](https://github.com/plankalkulist/multiIDE/blob/master/screenshot1.png)

Changing console settings, running a machine by step and viewing machine's memory (RAM) at the same time:
![architecture view](https://github.com/plankalkulist/multiIDE/blob/master/screenshot2.png)

Managing types of components for current workplace:
![architecture view](https://github.com/plankalkulist/multiIDE/blob/master/screenshot3.png)


## The multiIDE solution consists of 7 projects (except test projects):

![architecture view](https://github.com/plankalkulist/multiIDE/blob/master/archview.png)

### multiIDE.Commons
	Consists of interfaces for all components of the entire solution, also contains several common classes.
	Interfaces inheritance graph:
![architecture view](https://github.com/plankalkulist/multiIDE/blob/master/Components%20Inheritance%20Depencies.png)
### multiIDE.Core
	Contains multiIDE core components such as Workplace class, multiIDE form, IDE class and several common tools classes.
	Type dependencies graph:
![architecture view](https://github.com/plankalkulist/multiIDE/blob/master/Core%20Assembly%20Type%20Dependencies%20Graph.png)
### multiIDE.Machines
	Provides default set of virtual machines.
### multiIDE.CodeEditors
	Provides default set of code editors.
### multiIDE.IOports
	Provides default set of IO ports.
### multiIDE.IOdevices
	Provides default set of IO devices.
### multiIDE.Extras
	Provides default set of extra components both for a Workplace and for an IDE.


## Some integration testing

### Before you start
 To start using multiIDE mind to do following steps:
 1. Build dependencies solutions first (located in directory "\multiIDE\dependencies\src\"), i.e. XBinary, XGraphics and XString.
 2. Build solution "multiIDE.sln"
 3. Copy types config file "DefaultComponentsTypesSources.xml" in app directory - from "\multiIDE\config\" to "\multiIDE\multiIDE.Core\bin\Debug\"

### Test 1
 1. File > New Workplace
 2. click on New IDE button (with white sheet icon) or click in menu or press Ctrl+I
 3. check "Connect new Standard Console..." and click Create button or press Enter
 4. open BFS program file "\multiIDE\BFS code examples\cycle output numbers.bfs"
 5. click Run > Start or press F5 to start running the machine

 6. create New IDE without Std Console, and then connect Console id0 to new machine's output port
   by clicking Machine > I/O Ports > #0:... > Out:... > [Connect To:] Console id0 - ...
 7. open the same file again and Start running machine id1
   if warning about input ports/devices has shown, ignore it by clicking Yes

 8. now these machines are in concurrent running, and you can add more by the way


### Test 2
 in addition to that running machines (or in new Workplace)
 1. create a new IDE without Console
 2. then click Machine > I/O Ports > #0:... > In: (empty input port) > New Console Device
   and Machine > I/O Ports > #0:... > Out: (empty output port) > [Connect To:] Console id* - ...
 3. open BFS program file "\multiIDE\BFS code examples\cycle division.bfs"
 4. then Start running and input in Console a dividend and a divisor (with space or enter between)
 5. and then click Enter to get a quotient, then it goes around in cycle

### Test 3
  close, connect and disconnect consoles and other IO devices in any order trying to crash the app
